Let's wrap up this discussion with the topic of mock data for a web service.
In this section, we'll cover why use mock data and choosing an initial data set.
So first up, why use mock data.
Before deploying live and during your development process,
it's important to routinely test your project for bugs as you're building it out.
If you wait until the very end to start testing,
it'll be much harder to figure out the causes of issues that come up.
Testing with mock data also allows developers to simulate that
their code works as desired without affecting any live production data.
When integrating your blockchain with web services,
there are many considerations for choosing to test with mock data.
Here are some things to keep in mind. Block size.
What happens if the amount of new data going into
the block exceeds the maximum block size?
How will this be handled? Chain size.
If there's no limit here,
it's important to test
block creation functionality and performance as the chain continues to lengthen.
Performance. How long does it take to
query if it requires looking at every single block in the chain?
Security. Are there weaknesses that allow the data to be easily hacked?
Data corruption. What happens to the data in a block if a block gets corrupted?
Is there a way to repair the block and can the chain beyond the damaged block be reached?
Remember, whatever your reason for mock data,
to test early and to test often.
Next, let's see the considerations when choosing an initial mock data set.
First, know what type of data you're going to work with ahead of time.
This saves you a ton of work down the road.
For example, if you start coding for a string,
then you find out you needed an integer.
This means you need to go back and revisit those functions to support this datatype.
When it comes to web backend services,
configuring backend endpoints requires
understanding what responses are expected for client requests.
Knowing the desired outputs ahead of time,
allow you to focus on particular endpoint solutions.
This type of planning typically requires mock data.
With mock data, you can utilize a string to
mock the endpoint data as a placeholder with a desired output.
Once the upload is concluded,
you can remove the string and replace it with the real data.
Using actual data can come in a variety of forms,
from dynamic data held within a database to
calling other functions or responses to a client requests.
In our upcoming project,
you'll be using the blockchain that you built already as your mock data,
and while this is a simplified use case,
remember the purpose it serves.
As the projects you build get more complex,
these same considerations we discussed here will still apply.